Feature/google cloud loadbalancer (#5567)
solo-io/gloo: docs/content/guides/integrations/google_cloud/_index.md

{{% /notice %}}

## Combining with Gloo Edge

Standard load balancers still route the traffic to machine instances where iptables are used to route traffic to individual pods running on these machines. This introduces at least one additional network hop thereby introducing latency in the packet’s journey from load balancer to the pod.

Google introduced Cloud Native Load Balancing with a new data model called Network Endpoint Group (NEG). Instead of routing to the machine and then relying on iptables to route to the pod, with NEGs the traffic goes straight to the pod.

This leads to decreased latency and an increase in throughput when compared to traffic routed with vanilla load balancers.

![NEG]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/img/gcp-lb-neg.png" %}})

To use container-native load balancing, you must create a cluster with alias IPs enabled. This cluster:

- Must run GKE version 1.16.4 or later.
- Must be a VPC-native cluster.

> - Must have the HttpLoadBalancing add-on enabled.

Author: At this level it does not. The guide intends to not get too much into GCP operations rather than the minimum required to instantiate a Load Balancer.
The point is: The more we get into GCP operations the more we will have to maintain it, which is not strictly related to our business.
Let me know if it is ok for you.

> - Must have the HttpLoadBalancing add-on enabled.

Reviewer: Ok, yeah it just seemed like there were a lot of gcloud commands, so wanted to check.

```

In the Google Console, you can find the resource as part of the **Advanced Menu** at **Network Services -> Load Balancing -> Frontends tab**. You can filter by the name.

![LB Forwarding Rules]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/img/gcp-lb-forwardingrules.png" %}})

And you need to attach the NEG to the backend service:

```bash
gcloud compute backend-services add-backend my-gloo-edge-nlb-backend-service \
    --network-endpoint-group=my-gloo-edge-nlb \
    --balancing-mode CONNECTION \
    --max-connections-per-endpoint 5 \
    --network-endpoint-group-zone <my-cluster-zone> \
    --global
```

Where `<my-cluster-zone>` is the zone where the cluster has been deployed.

After adding the Backend Service to the NEG, you will see the Health Check becoming green:

![NEG Health Checks]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/img/gcp-lb-neg-hc.png" %}})

Finally, let's test the connectivity through the Load Balancer:

```bash
APP_IP=$(gcloud compute addresses describe my-gloo-edge-loadbalancer-address-nlb --global --format=json | jq -r '.address')

curl -k https://34.117.34.186/get -H "Host: my-gloo-edge.com"
```

You should be able to reach the application.

### HTTPS Load Balancer

> To connect a HTTPS Load Balancer, first, you will configure a service in gloo:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To connect a HTTPS Load Balancer, first, you will configure a Gloo Edge Virtual Service.
```

    app: httpbin
spec:
  type: LoadBalancer
  ports:
  - name: http
    port: 80
    targetPort: 80
  selector:
    app: httpbin
---
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: httpbin
spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: httpbin
      version: v1
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: httpbin
        version: v1
    spec:
      serviceAccountName: httpbin
      containers:
      - image: docker.io/kennethreitz/httpbin
        imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
        name: httpbin
        ports:
        - containerPort: 80
---
apiVersion: gateway.solo.io/v1
kind: VirtualService
metadata:
  name: neg-demo
  namespace: gloo-system
spec:
  virtualHost:
    domains:
      - 'my-gloo-edge.com'  # Notice the hostname!!
    routes:
      - matchers:
          - prefix: /
        routeAction:
            single:
              upstream:
                name: default-httpbin-80
                namespace: gloo-system
EOF
```

Test that the demo application is reachable. You should see the host name:

```bash
kubectl -n gloo-system port-forward svc/gateway-proxy 8080:80

curl -k -s http://localhost:8080/get -H "Host: my-gloo-edge.com"
```

> Upgrade your gloo installation with following attributes in your helm `values.yaml`. This will create 3 replicas for the default gateway proxy and will add specific GCP annotations:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Upgrade your Gloo Edge installation with the following Helm `values.yaml` file. This example creates 3 replicas for the default gateway proxy and adds specific GCP annotations.
```

```yaml
[...]
gloo:
  [...]
  gatewayProxies:
    [...]
    gatewayProxy:
      gatewaySettings:
        useProxyProto: true
      kind:
        deployment:
          replicas: 3 # You deploy three replicas of the proxy
      service:
        type: ClusterIP
        extraAnnotations:
          cloud.google.com/neg: '{ "exposed_ports":{ "80":{"name": "my-gloo-edge-https"} } }'
[...]
```

While this example uses a ClusterIP service, all five types of Services support standalone NEGs. Google recommends the default type, ClusterIP.

With that configuration you can see one resource automatically created:

```
kubectl get svcneg -A
```

And you will see:

```
NAMESPACE     NAME                                       AGE
gloo-system   my-gloo-edge-https                          1m
```

You can `kubectl describe` the resources to see the status.

And, in the google cloud console, you will see the new NEG.

![New NEGs]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/img/gcp-lb-nlb-negs.png" %}})

Since you have deployed three replicas, you can see there are 3 network endpoints.

##### Configuration in GCP

> To instantiate a Load Balancer in Google Cloud (GCP), you need to create following set of resources:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To instantiate a Load Balancer in Google Cloud (GCP), you need to create the following set of resources.
```
